OSDOCS#6017 cert-manager : Configuring an ACME issuer (#59702)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/cert-manager-acme-dns01-ambient-gcp.adoc

Reviewer: Throughout this module, I have the same suggestions as in the AWS module for making user-replaced values very obvious to avoid users pasting examples into their configs. Ex, `<host>:<port>` for `1.1.1.1:53`.

Reviewer 2: @jeana-redhat Saw [that](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/59702/files#r1261526587) which are "same suggestions as in the AWS module". But for this specific section "This step is required only when the target public-hosted zone overlaps with the cluster's default private-hosted zone", the out-of-box 1.1.1.1:53 is suggested to be (or even should be, for most situations) pasted by users (so that they need not set up one DNS server), @swghosh can confirm.

Reviewer 3: Yeah, dns servers like `1.1.1.1.:53` or `8.8.8.8:53` are good fit for public dns servers which solves the public/private zone overlap. If we end up using `<host1>:<port1>,<host2>:<port2>,...` (comma-separated), I'll still suggest having the 1.1.1.1:53 or similar examples available somewhere nearby to avoid hitting questions from users.

----
apiVersion: operator.openshift.io/v1alpha1
kind: CertManager
metadata:
  name: cluster
  ...
spec:
  ...
  controllerConfig:                                <1>
    overrideArgs:
      - '--dns01-recursive-nameservers-only'       <2>
      - '--dns01-recursive-nameservers=1.1.1.1:53' <3>
----
<1> Add the `spec.controllerConfig` section.
<2> Specify to only use recursive nameservers instead of checking the authoritative nameservers associated with that domain.
<3> Provide a comma-separated list of `<host>:<port>` nameservers to query for the DNS-01 self check.

.. Save the file to apply the changes.

. Optional: Create a namespace for the issuer:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc new-project my-issuer-namespace
----

. Modify the `CertManager` resource to add the `--issuer-ambient-credentials` argument:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc patch certmanager/cluster --type=merge -p='{"spec":{"controllerConfig":{"overrideArgs":["--issuer-ambient-credentials"]}}}'
----

. Create an issuer.

.. Create a YAML file that defines the `Issuer` object:
+
.Example `issuer.yaml` file
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: cert-manager.io/v1
kind: Issuer
metadata:
  name: issuer-acme-dns01-clouddns <1>

> spec:

Reviewer 2: Today happened to find one minor inconsistent issue, some `kind: Issuer` and `kind: Certificate` have `namespace: my-issuer-namespace` but some others have not. But this is a minor issue, not very big.

Author: Addressed

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * security/cert_manager_operator/cert-manager-operator-issuer-acme.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="cert-manager-acme-dns01-ambient-gcp_{context}"]
= Configuring an ACME issuer to solve DNS-01 challenges by using ambient credentials on GCP

You can use the {cert-manager-operator} to set up an ACME issuer to solve DNS-01 challenges by using ambient credentials on GCP. This procedure uses _Let's Encrypt_ as the ACME CA server and shows how to solve DNS-01 challenges with Google CloudDNS.

.Prerequisites

> * If you are using GCP with workload identity, you followed the instructions from the _Configuring cloud credentials for the cert-manager Operator for Red Hat OpenShift with GCP Workload Identity_ section.
> * If you are using GCP without workload identity, you followed the instructions from the _Configuring cloud credentials for the cert-manager Operator for Red Hat OpenShift on GCP_ section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If your cluster is configured to use GCP Workload Identity, you followed the instructions from the _Configuring cloud credentials for the cert-manager Operator for Red Hat OpenShift with GCP Workload Identity_ section.
* If your cluster does not use GCP Workload Identity, you followed the instructions from the _Configuring cloud credentials for the cert-manager Operator for Red Hat OpenShift on GCP_ section.
```

.Procedure

> . Optional: Override the nameserver settings for the DNS-01 self check:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Optional: Override the nameserver settings for the DNS-01 self check.
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * security/cert_manager_operator/cert-manager-operator-issuer-acme.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="cert-manager-acme-dns01-ambient-gcp_{context}"]
= Configuring an ACME issuer to solve DNS-01 challenges by using ambient credentials on GCP

You can use the {cert-manager-operator} to set up an ACME issuer to solve DNS-01 challenges by using ambient credentials on GCP. This procedure uses _Let's Encrypt_ as the ACME CA server and shows how to solve DNS-01 challenges with Google CloudDNS.

.Prerequisites

> * You have access to a role that has a permission to create issuers and certificates in the desired namespace.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* You have access to a role that has permissions to create issuers and certificates in the desired namespace.
```

* If you are using GCP with workload identity, you followed the instructions from the _Configuring cloud credentials for the cert-manager Operator for Red Hat OpenShift with GCP Workload Identity_ section.

> * If you are using GCP without workload identity, you followed the instructions from the _Configuring cloud credentials for the cert-manager Operator for Red Hat OpenShift on GCP_ section.

Reviewer 2: No links for these references are shown. Same for other places of `you followed the instructions ...`

Author: Added additional resources section in the assembly to include section links https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/59702/files#diff-1fa7438f3b35bcfae2a4c11d374f7c12ecdf578134a7cf3689d2d5ea6c4f7726R38

.. Save the file to apply the changes.

. Optional: Create a namespace for the issuer.

.. Create a YAML file that defines a `Namespace` object:
+
.Example `namespace.yaml` file
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Namespace
metadata:
  name: my-issuer-namespace <1>
----
<1> Specify the namespace for the issuer.

.. Create the `Namespace` object by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f namespace.yaml
----

. Create an issuer.

.. Create a YAML file that defines the `Issuer` object:
+
.Example `issuer.yaml` file
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: cert-manager.io/v1
kind: Issuer
metadata:
  name: issuer-acme-dns01-clouddns <1>
spec:
  acme:
    preferredChain: ""
    privateKeySecretRef:
      name: <secret_private_key> <2>
    server: https://acme-staging-v02.api.letsencrypt.org/directory <3>
    solvers:
    - dns01:
        cloudDNS:
          project: <project_id> <4>
----
<1> Provide a name for the issuer.
<2> Replace `<secret_private_key>` with the name of the secret to store the ACME account private key in.
<3> Specify the URL to access the ACME server's `directory` endpoint. This example uses the _Let's Encrypt_ staging environment.

> <4> Replace `<gcp_project_id>` with the name of the project.

Reviewer 2: Incorrect. YAML shows project_id and note uses gcp_project_id. Please refer to the explicit section's Replace <project_id> with the name of the GCP project that contains the Cloud DNS zone.

.. Create the `Issuer` object by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f issuer.yaml
----

. Create a certificate.

.. Create a YAML file that defines the `Certificate` object:
+
.Example `certificate.yaml` file
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: cert-manager.io/v1
kind: Certificate
metadata:
  name: my-tls-cert <1>
spec:
  secretName: my-tls-cert <2>
  issuerRef:
    name: issuer-acme-dns01-clouddns <3>
  dnsNames:
  - '<domain_name>' <4>
----
<1> Provide a name for the certificate.
<2> Specify the name of the secret to create that will contain the certificate.
<3> Specify the name of the issuer that you created.
<4> Replace `<domain_name>` with your domain name.

.. Create the `Certificate` object by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f certificate.yaml

> ----

Reviewer 3: Since, we have 5 different cases of users having to create a certificate (all of which still use dns-01) it'd possibly be preferable to keep Certificate manifests explicitly in each step with complete values, otherwise we end up confusing the users in multitude of ways. Also, ambient in GCP and AWS still needs different dns01 challenge fields eg, gcp-project-id in GCP, while in explicit dns-01 it's very different, would be handy to keep different Certificate variants in one page.

> ----

Reviewer 2: Certificate manifests for different dns01 challenges **seem not different, seems only a referenced issuer name changes.** It is OK to duplicate certificate manifests with only referenced issuer name changes. But was thinking whether there is better efficient documenting way. So commented above.

> ----

Reviewer 3: I misunderstood and thought that we were wanting to change Issuer manifests in ambient. My bad, yeah that is good idea +1 to the original idea, thanks!

> ----

Reviewer 2: @xenolinux WDYT about above original review suggestion? Will you update this time?
Or, if you would like to revisit like another similar issue https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/59702#discussion_r1242120513 , it is fine, if so, could you create a Jira tracker for them?

> ----

Author: Hoi @xingxingxia I will create a Jira tracker to revisit the issue.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * security/cert_manager_operator/cert-manager-operator-issuer-acme.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="cert-manager-acme-dns01-ambient-gcp_{context}"]
= Configuring an ACME issuer to solve DNS-01 challenges by using ambient credentials on GCP

You can use the {cert-manager-operator} to set up an ACME issuer to solve DNS-01 challenges by using ambient credentials on GCP. This procedure uses _Let's Encrypt_ as the ACME CA server and shows how to solve DNS-01 challenges with Google CloudDNS.

[NOTE]
====
Private DNS zones are not supported.
====

.Prerequisites

* You have access to the {product-title} cluster as a user with the `cluster-admin` role.
* If you are using GCP with workload identity, you followed the instructions from the _Configuring cloud credentials for the cert-manager Operator for Red Hat OpenShift with GCP Workload Identity_ section.
* If you are using GCP without workload identity, you followed the instructions from the _Configuring cloud credentials for the cert-manager Operator for Red Hat OpenShift on GCP_ section.

> * You have set up an IAM role for Google CloudDNS. For more information, see link:https://cert-manager.io/docs/configuration/acme/dns01/google/[Google CloudDNS] in the upstream cert-manager documentation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

Should considering removing this as well (exactly similar to the other one in case of AWS ambient).

.. Save the file to apply the changes.

. Optional: Create a namespace for the issuer.

.. Create a YAML file that defines a `Namespace` object:
+
.Example `namespace.yaml` file
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Namespace
metadata:
  name: my-issuer-namespace <1>
----
<1> Specify the namespace for the issuer.

.. Create the `Namespace` object by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f namespace.yaml
----

. Create an issuer.

.. Create a YAML file that defines the `Issuer` object:
+
.Example `issuer.yaml` file
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: cert-manager.io/v1
kind: Issuer
metadata:
  name: issuer-acme-dns01-clouddns <1>
spec:
  acme:
    preferredChain: ""
    privateKeySecretRef:
      name: <secret_private_key> <2>
    server: https://acme-staging-v02.api.letsencrypt.org/directory <3>
    solvers:
    - dns01:
        cloudDNS:
          project: <project_id> <4>
----
<1> Provide a name for the issuer.
<2> Replace `<secret_private_key>` with the name of the secret to store the ACME account private key in.
<3> Specify the URL to access the ACME server's `directory` endpoint. This example uses the _Let's Encrypt_ staging environment.

> <4> Replace `<project_id>` with the name of the project.

Reviewer 3: Again, being specific about GCP project id helps, similar to other comment.
